Xeltalliv/simple3D: Docs revision (#1474)
TurboWarp/extensions: docs/Xeltalliv/simple3D.md

What you now have are 3D positions relative to the camera. But your screen is 2D, so the last step is to do the projection. The general gist of it is that you divide all X and Y by Z, so that the further something is, the smaller it is and the closer it is to the center of the screen. And while doing that, clipping everything that goes offscreen or too close and behind you.

But in reality it's somewhat more complicated.
You first transform X, Y, Z into X, Y, Z and W of the clip space and then GPU automatically clips X, Y and Z to the rangle from -W to W, and then divides
X, Y, Z by W, so X, Y, Z end up in range from -1 to 1. Where W is the actual depth, while Z is depth converted to the correct range to be used with the
depth buffer (everything below -1 and above 1 gets clipped) (too far and too close).

> If that sounded complicated, don't worry, Simple3D extension mostly handles it for you.

Reviewer: If this sounds complicated?

Result should once again look the same.

### Primitive restart index
"triangle strips" and "triangle fans" are efficient, but when using it you only get 1 long continuous mesh of triangles, meaning that to draw many "strips" or "fans" you will have to call "draw mesh" many times, which makes it less efficient.

The solution to this is to use "triangle strips" and "triangle fans" together with list of indices. If you specify index 0 or below, it will interrupt the previous chain of triangles and restart a new one.

Same applies to "line strip" and "line loop".

## Setting up transformations <a name="transformations"></a>
The typical sequence of simple transformation for a 3D project goes like this:

> You'd start off with having a 3D model in it's own coordinate system (model space), with all vertex positions stored relative to its origin. The first step after this would be to transform it to the world coordinate system. If the object has its own rotation, rotate every vertex around its origin (0,0,0) by the correct amount of degrees. If it's scaled, scale them. Once that is done, offset every vertex by the object's world position. Now the positions of all of the vertices are in the world coordinate system (world space).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'd start off with having a 3D model in its own coordinate system (model space), with all vertex positions stored relative to its origin. The first step after this would be to transform it to the world coordinate system. If the object has its own rotation, rotate every vertex around its origin (0,0,0) by the correct amount of degrees. If it's scaled, scale them. Once that is done, offset every vertex by the object's world position. Now the positions of all of the vertices are in the world coordinate system (world space).
```

What you now have are 3D positions relative to the camera. But your screen is 2D, so the last step is to do the projection. The general gist of it is that you divide all X and Y by Z, so that the further something is, the smaller it is and the closer it is to the center of the screen. And while doing that, clipping everything that goes offscreen or too close and behind you.

But in reality it's somewhat more complicated.
You first transform X, Y, Z into X, Y, Z and W of the clip space and then GPU automatically clips X, Y and Z to the rangle from -W to W, and then divides
X, Y, Z by W, so X, Y, Z end up in range from -1 to 1. Where W is the actual depth, while Z is depth converted to the correct range to be used with the
depth buffer (everything below -1 and above 1 gets clipped) (too far and too close).

> If that sounded complicated, don't worry, Simple3D extension mostly handles it for you.

Reviewer: Technically should be the following, but both work and the former may make more sense
```suggestion
If this sounds complicated, don't worry, Simple3D extension mostly handles it for you.
```

draw mesh [my mesh] :: sensing
```

> Doing all of those steps again for every mesh you want to draw is inefficient. This is where doing steps in reverse becomes helpful. The wrapper block will save the transformation when entered, and will restore it when exited. Using this, it's possible to do this:

Reviewer: In my opinion, I don't like using "this" right next to each other.
```suggestion
Doing all of those steps again for every mesh you want to draw is inefficient. This is where doing steps in reverse becomes helpful. The wrapper block will save the transformation when entered, and will restore it when exited. Using this, it's possible to do the following:
```

draw mesh [my mesh] :: sensing
end
```
The extension allows you to split your large transformation into 3 separate transformations, which will be applied sequentially, allowing some of the features to act inbetween.

> It also allows you to easily work between different coordinate systems using those blocks:

Reviewer 2: I think "go", "transform" or "convert" fit better than "work". Originally it was meant to be "go".

### Pixel Colors
For each pixel, the final color calculation goes as follows:
1. texture is read, blank if texture is not provided

> 2. multiplied by interpolated vertex color RGBA

Reviewer 2: It is important that it's exactly white (RGBA 1,1,1,1) when no texture is provided, because this color is used in all the further computations. The word "blank" is ambiguous and can also mean black (RGBA 0,0,0,1) or transparent (RGBA 0,0,0,0).

### Pixel Colors
For each pixel, the final color calculation goes as follows:

> 1. texture is read, blank if texture is not provided

Reviewer: I agree with @Xeltalliv, "blank" is ambiguous and "white" is more technically accurate. There's no grammatical error here and the original is clearer

> 1. texture is read, blank if texture is not provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. texture is read, white if texture is not provided
```

```scratch
create mesh [my mesh] :: sensing
```
Creates an empty mesh with the specified name. If a mesh with such name already exists, it gets replaced.

> Whitespaces at the end of the name and any commas are removed for compatibility with the “make mesh inherit” block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whitespaces at both ends of the name and any commas are removed for compatibility with the “make mesh inherit” block.
```

> Whitespaces and commas will be removed from the mesh name. This is done for compatibility with "make mesh inherit" block.

Reviewer: The original is clearer, but more wordy. The mesh block accepts names such as `mesh name` but not `  mesh_name  `. The distinction between trimming whitespace off the ends and removing all white space helps make sense of which names are actually accepted. Either way, it doesn't really matter on the user-side as the trimming all happens in the backend anyway

> Whitespaces and commas will be removed from the mesh name. This is done for compatibility with "make mesh inherit" block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whitespaces at the end of the name and any commas are removed to ensure compatibility with the “make mesh inherit” block.
```

Reviewer 2: not just end, but both ends. `string.trim()`. spaces inside are preserved.

set [my mesh] texture coordinates UVW [listU v] [listV v] [listW v] :: sensing
```
Used to upload texture coordinates into the mesh.
The block with 2 components is used for 2D textures. Specifies 2D coordinates on a texture, which go from 0 to 1. But values outside of those bounds are also valid and useful.
The block with 3 components is used for cube textures (cubemaps). Specifies 3D direction from the center, which will be intersected with the cube around it.
If texture coordinates are specified, but a texture is not, the default texture is used.

---
```scratch
set [my mesh] texture () [clamp to edge v] [pixelated v] :: sensing
set [my mesh] cube texture [X+] () [clamp to edge v] [pixelated v] :: sensing
```
Used to upload a texture into the mesh.

> Depending on the type of texture used, calling the block will either upload the texture instantly (e.g. empty or text) or schedules the texture to be uploaded into the mesh some time in the future (e.g. load from url or from costume).

Reviewer 2: schedule

> This block is designed as a more of a shortcut for quick testing, rather than the main way of loading 3D models. For anything more complex, make your own 3D model parser.

File formats:

>  - [obj](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavefront_.obj_file) is a very common and well known 3D model file format. It supports UV texture coordinates, materials with colors and textures. However it does not have a standardized way to do vertex colors. This block implements a non-standard but widely supported way to represent vertex colors as 4th - 7th elements of `v`. The OBJ and MTL specification describes a lot of features, only some of which are currently (or even can be) supported by this importer. In particular, there is currently no way to import models which use multiple textures as this extensions only supports 1 texture per mesh. Normals and anything lighting related isn't and can't be supported. **In case both OBJ and MTL files need to be imported, combine them all into 1 list sequentially, first all of the MTL files and then the OBJ file.**

Reviewer: Fixing spelling and gramatical issues

```suggestion
 - [obj](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavefront_.obj_file) is a very common and well known 3D model file format. It supports UV texture coordinates, materials with colors and textures. However it does not have a standardized way to do vertex colors. This block implements a non-standard but widely supported way to represent vertex colors as 4th - 7th elements of `v`. The OBJ and MTL specification describes a lot of features, only some of which are currently (or even can be) supported by this importer. In particular, there is currently no way to import models which use multiple textures, as this extension only supports 1 texture per mesh. Normals and anything lighting related isn't and can't be supported. **In case both OBJ and MTL files need to be imported, combine them all into 1 list sequentially: first all of the MTL files, and then the OBJ file.**
```

>  - [off](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OFF_(file_format)) is a not that well known, but very simple file format. Is is quite neat for the use in scratch in general, as it's simpler than OBJ and unlike it, natively supports both vertex and face colors. It does not support textures or texture coordinates. You can read more about it and find a lot of example models [here](http://web.archive.org/web/20230331211230/https://people.sc.fsu.edu/~jburkardt/data/off/off.html). Since the format is so simple, this importer supports all features of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [off](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OFF_(file_format)) is not that well known, but a very simple file format. Is is quite neat for use in Scratch in general, as it's simpler than OBJ. Unlike it, natively supports both vertex and face colors. It does not support textures or texture coordinates. You can read more about it and find a lot of example models [here](http://web.archive.org/web/20230331211230/https://people.sc.fsu.edu/~jburkardt/data/off/off.html). Since the format is so simple, this importer supports all features of it.
```
